Wildfire smoke live updates: NYC tops list of world's worst air quality rankings

Hazy and dangerous fumes from ongoing wildfires in Canada have engulfed the skies over much of the Northeast, prompting serious air quality alerts in at least 16 states.

MORE: Wildfire smoke map: Which US cities, states are being impacted by Canadian wildfires

Canadian officials said firefighters are scrambling to put out the blazes. So far this wildfire season, Canada has seen more than 8.7 million acres burned -- an area larger than the state of Vermont.


New York City tops list of world's worst air quality rankings
New York City is topping the list of the world's worst air quality rankings by a landslide, according to IQ Air, which monitors air quality worldwide.

New York City reached 324 on the AQI Wednesday afternoon, which is in the worst category -- hazardous -- on the U.S. government’s air quality tracker. Wednesday shattered New York City's record for the highest AQI since records began in 1999.

Dubai and Delhi came in at No. 2 and No. 3 in the world with 168 and 164, respectively.

NY issues another Air Quality Health Advisory for Thursday
New York state officials have issued another Air Quality Health Advisory for Thursday for the entire state with the exception of the Adirondacks.


How to stay safe from wildfire smoke
The most effective way to protect yourself during wildfire emergencies is to stay indoors or limit time outdoors when there is smoke in the air, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. This is especially important for those with heart or lung conditions who are at higher risk for adverse health effects.

If you can, try to avoid exercising outdoors until the air quality improves, especially those with underlying lung disease.

"People with asthma and people who already have lung disease or underlying lung problems, it can exacerbate that, it can irritate that. And if the air quality is bad enough, it can even cause some symptoms of feeling unwell and respiratory symptoms in people who are healthy," said Dr. Stephanie Widmer, a member of ABC News' Medical Unit.

Pregnant people should also try to avoid spending time outdoors, especially those who are further along, Widmer said.

You should wear a mask that covers your nose and mouth, fits tightly to your face and can filter out smoke or ash particles before you breathe them in, according to the CDC. N95 or P100 masks can help protect your lungs from smoke or ash.